Welcome back.
In this video I would like to talk about documentation's and how you can pretty much extend your knowledge
and understand in more depth what's going on.
And therefore let's check out this table widget that we have.
And it's called cue table widget so if you want to know more about your table widget we can of course
check out the properties and all of that.
But we can also google it because the documentation is always our friend.
So cue table widget let's just search for that and we will find this documentation here.
And it says class cue's documentation so 5 or 11 that's the version that I'm currently running.
And it might be a different version for you but there is this class called queue table widget.
Now the thing is this is a C++ documentation and you will see that there are public functions some avoid
some are and so forth.
All this pretty much means here on the left hand side is what they return so void means it doesn't return
anything.
It means it returns an entire current item will return a queue table widget item and so forth.
So you see for example the row count which we have used returns an integer which returns in a number
and Konst is pretty much just something from C++.
So if I press on row count then I will find a more detailed information about this abro count Konst
get a function for a property row count and you can also see how you can set the row counts so there
is a method for that and so forth.
So you can see that there is a documentation.
And yeah pretty much helps us out if we are searching for something.
But then if we have a full look at the code we have something here which is C plus plus code.
And how do we know that.
Well you can see that it's not Python because there is a semi-colon at the end.
Then there's this new keyword which we have never used it's not used in Python.
Then we have the star and we need to tell of which type of object is when we created it before we initialize
it and so forth.
So C++ is a very different programming language.
It's just C which extended object orientation and it's pretty old so that it's from a time where the
programming languages weren't as easy to use as they are today.
So I'd say Python is a rather easy to use programming language because it has a lot of functionality
which makes it so much easier to pretty much write your code.
You don't need to have to have all of this overhead that for example C++ Yes you would also have this
table which should said item where we would just use a dot in Python.
But here you need to use mine is greater sign.
So it's yeah if you see something like that then you know OK this is not Python.
So how do we actually use that.
So how can I now go ahead and use that same functionality in Python.
Well you can of course go ahead and copy the C++ code and then try to break it down so that it looks
like Python code.
So that's something that is not easy especially as a beginner but that's something you could do.
Of course you can also search for q table widget pie cute or piking will probably get a vessel like
you and then you will find the documentation for pie cube.
And as you can see this is the documentation it's not pretty.
It's just very basic.
And then if I scroll down you will see that even here in the pipe 1 which is the python one we still
get some C++ code as examples.
Ok so if I for example go to insert growth.
So let's say we want to insert a row and we press it.
You will find this method is also a cute slot with the C++ signature void in a row.
It answers an empty row into the table add row so it row whatever we have entered here.
So the documentation is not perfect and that's the case for many documentations.
It's not just with cute or cute but generally I would always recommend to check out the documentation
and if that doesn't help then search for what you specifically want to do.
So let's say you want to insert a row.
So I'm just going to add insert row and you will see it says here C++ how to add a new row to existing
cue table widget and then they will show you OK.
OK this is the C++ code not helping me again C++ code not helping me.
Ok then you can of course add quite cute in here.
Or Python you could add the python word and then you see Python how to add a row in a table widget cute
and then you finally find Python code.
So stack overflow is your friend and they can really help you out.
You can find a lot of useful information here and say Yeah the problem pretty much all questions that
you could think of were already asked and answered already.
So this guy he has and so did Alexander and then you can see there's a check mark which pretty much
means this was the question or the answer that was accepted by the question maker or by the moderator
here and get 20 people uploaded this because it seems like it has helped them out as well.
And that's pretty much how you can approach it.
You can always just search for the specific thing that you want to do.
You can see insert row I wrote it in one line you can also wrote it all in one word.
You can write it in two words and you can check out the class reference which will bring us back to
the documentation so you can see the documentation is powerful in Google of course and not always helpful.
So you can always of course search on stage overflow specifically.
So now let's quickly go back to the documentation because I would like to check something out and I'm
not talking about the Piute documentation but I'm talking about the qued documentation the general on
the C++ what they can find signal's So there is something called signals and you can see that there
are plenty of signals for example cell activated cell change cell clicks or double click.
So there are all of these signals which we can use in order to execute some code and that's powerful
because we want to for example trigger some code.
If a user and there's some new value and changes a cell again we can do that with cell changed if we
wanted to trigger some code wants to use a click the cell.
Well we could of course even use cell clicked or cell double clicked in order to execute some other
code.
So you see there is quite some cool stuff here.
Great signals that we can use and I'd say Let's check that out real quick.
Of course you can check it out here.
We can press on it you see in row and column.
All right that's good.
Let's just check it out and queued.
So here let me add a new signal.
So here at the bottom go to signals and slots and go to add one and I'm going to say the sender should
be my table widget and will be this one here.
So the table widget is my sonder.
Now what's the signal.
As you can see there are plenty of signals that we can choose from so we can choose cell changed and
let's make this a little wider so we can read better.
So activators So click sell enter sell change.
So let's say sell change somebody's changed to sell at in into which pretty much means that this particular
cell so this one here that's all here which says 4 million that will be 1 1 which pretty much means
roll one column one.
OK.
And of course we could select a receiver here but.
Well there aren't very many interesting things.
Of course we could say OK if somebody changes to sell then we want to hide our pushbuttons so we could
say hide something like that but that doesn't make sense and we don't really have anything else in here
that we would access directly via cute editor.
I'd say we use Python code for that.
So get rid of it.
And now we're going to go back to Python because I would like to show you how it's done in Python because
it's a little limited.
And the cute creator as you know now in here I'm going to create a new method that I'm going to call
on cell changed and it's going to take selve the role and to call them.
And how do I know that there should be a row and a column.
Well you can of course check out the documentation where you will see cell changed takes in row and
column and I want to call this method on cell change which should do a very similar thing.
So I'm just going to say OK Ansal changed take the wrong columns.
I want to know which cell I would need to change.
And now let's say the only thing that I will do in here is actually print something.
So print roll and print cell.
Now we are actually called.
Right so print call.
Now we need to connect that of course.
Where do we connected to self-taught UI dot table widget that cell changed.
So there is the cell changed and as you can see it has a row and a column.
And now I'm not calling this method I'm connecting this method to self-taught on cell changed.
So we need to have the same properties here as the cell changed and you saw it needed a row and a column
so I entered those rows and columns in order to use them now and that me run this code so I may execute
it and make a change here so I can see I cannot make a change because I edited it last time so I need
to go back to huge creator and make sure that my widget allows the editing of triggers.
So double clicked and everything and then save it and rebuild it real quick and then build and run main
Can I can change it.
Let's say I change it to New York and I press enter you can see I get 0 0 0 0 0 pretty much means row
and column.
So zero was the row and that was the column so I could say something like row coal on empty space plus.
And of course call empty space loss.
And now let's make strings from it.
So I asked our.
And as we are called now let's run it again and let's make a change here and then we roll zero call
them 1 was changed.
That's the one with inhabitants.
Now let's go and make a change here.
And you see row 1 column one was changed.
Now let me add a new line each time I'll add a new line it also automatically made changes here because
the word cells changed and that's why the displayed row to call them 1 was changed.
This one here.
So now let me change it again and you will see OK the item and row two and column one was changed.
So why is this even useful.
What do we even need.
This whole own cell change thing for.
Well imagine you want to save that you want to store the changes directly in a CV file or in a database
or online somewhere and you want to make the changes or store them each time that they use or changed
a role because you don't want him to actually always press a safe button in order to change to see as
we file for example.
But you actually want to save it straight after he changed one of those solar cells and that's exactly
what we do here.
So each time we could say OK each time the user changes a cell we will pretty much store that.
And he says fire.
OK so now was just a little inside on widgets and a little tip on how to use the documentation and how
to search for more functionality and yes see you in the next video.